We are gonna get ourselves
into writing your own scripts.
This is probably one of the, again,
more useful things for you to do.
Like if you find yourself writing, like
doing the same tasks over and over again,
the command line.
Whether that's like downloading a file,
executing it, and
moving that storage to a different area,
like you can put those into like scripts.
And then, you can run just like a script
instead having to run like a bunch of
commands in a row, you can just go and
run a whole script, right?
I think that makes sense.
And luckily like, you've kinda already
know how to do this because, you and
I have been programming this entire
time just interactively, right?
We've been doing, running one command and
waiting for the result.
With this, you can just use Bash script
to run many commands in a row, and
it's all using the same syntax.
Okay, so we're in the shell scripts and
then writing your own
scripts part of this.
So let's go ahead and go and
make our very own my first Bash script.
So we're going to do this all in vi,
cuz it's a lot of fun, right?
So we're gonna come back over
to our command line here, and
we're here in my home directory,
and I'm just gonna say vi.
And you could also do this
with Nano if you want to.
So make a file, what are we gonna call it?
Gen files, underscore genfiles.sh.
Okay, I'm going to put myself
in insert mode with I, and
I'm gonna say the first one
is going to be mk dir-p.
Till the slash temp, okay?
So this -p means if the file or the folder
already exists, don't error out, right?
Cuz otherwise if you just do mk
dir without the dash capital or
the -p, if temp already exists as a K
that already exists, I'm not going to,
I'm gonna error out and
now your script would fail.
So the -p means, if it's already
exist great, just don't do anything.
Okay, then we're going to cd into that
temp directory that we just created.
So the nice thing about doing CD this
way is it's only going to last for
the duration of this script invocation,
right?
So it's not like it's going to if I run
this folder is not going to transport me
into temp, it's just for
the duration of this script.
Okay, then I'm going to do touch file, and
then we're going to do that range
thing that we saw before .txt,
and then we're going to say echo done.
So as you might imagine,
this is going to create a directory,
it's going to change directory into it.
It's going to create a bunch of files and
then it's going to echo done.
Pretty simple,
pretty straightforward from there.
Okay, so I'm going to hit escape,
and write, and quit.
Okay, and then I can just say, source.
What did we call it, gen_ files, right?
And then you can see there,
it just says done.
So sources when we can do that,
I can also do that with .gen files.
So I have to get back out of
this .gen_files like that.
Totally equivalent,
I would say that the dot notation there,
that works in more distributions of
Linux source only works in some of them.
And you can also say Bash
gen _files like that.
And that's the part so here's why,
notice that this did not change
my directory, whereas source did.
That's because Bash actually
creating a sub process, and so
the sub process will change directories.
But once that finishes,
it goes back to my parent process.
Whereas sources running
this in the same process,
which is why it's changing our directory,
kinda a weird hair to split there.
But, that's a, I guess first of all,
is anyone have any questions about
that seems like it's a relatively
straightforward application of things
that we've already done before.
It's just putting everything into a file,
and
it's just nice because you don't
have to remember how to do it.
You just say like, I'm going to create
this script file is gonna do one thing for
me, and then it's done.
Kinda like what we did with
the bash 2048 there as well, right?
That's the same idea,
that's just someone's very long game,
they put it into a script file.